# Tenses

There are twelve basic tenses in English, four for each of three categories of past, present, and future.

In my conlang each category is denoted by a simple verb ender.

- Past = do
- Present = re
- Future = mi

These verb enders are added to the end of verbs to denote tense. A verb without an ender is an infinitive (i.e. To run, To cook, To read). The verb enders can be combined to create the other tenses.

1. Past:
    1. Past (I did)
        1. ‘do
    2. Past Continuous (I was doing)
        1. ‘dore
    3. Past Perfect (I had done)
        1. ‘dodo
    4. Past Perfect Continuous (I had been doing)
        1. ‘dodore
2. Present:
    1. Present (I do)
        1. ‘re
    2. Present Continuous (I am doing)
        1. ‘redo
    3. Present Perfect (I have done)
        1. ‘rere
    4. Present Perfect Continuous (I have been doing)
        1. ‘reredo
3. Future:
    1. Future (I will do)
        1. ‘mi
    2. Future Continuous (I will be doing)
        1. ‘mido
    3. Future Perfect (I will have done)
        1. ‘mimi
    4. Future Perfect Continuous (I will have been doing)
        1. ‘mimido

A verb with a tense ending but no pronoun on the front is the simple present/command version of the verb (Stop!/Run!/Leave!)

In this way any verb can be conjugated.

- Examples:
    - To read = Sliip
    - I read = Ye’sliip’do
    - I was reading = Ye’sliip’dore
    - I had read = Ye’sliip’dodo
    - I had been reading = Ye’sliip’dodore
    - I read = Ye’sliip’re
    - I am reading = Ye’sliip’redo
    - I have read = Ye’sliip’rere
    - I have been reading = Ye’sliip’reredo
    - I will read = Ye’sliip’mi
    - I will be reading = Ye’sliip’mido
    - I will have read = Ye’sliip’mimi
    - I will have been reading = Ye’sliip’mimido
    - Stop! = Kinrup’re!